Psychologically speaking, how does this process work? In what sense is such an experience understood to be a “full fact” and a “complete vision,” and in what way does it differ from the so called scientific “objective” form of perception? People have different personalities and obstacles therefore allowing it to be plausible that they would find different solutions to the problem of life. A “science of religion” cannot take religions place since “knowledge about a thing is not the thing itself.” Science may provide answers to “causes and elements of religion, and might even decide which elements were qualified, by their general harmony with other branches of knowledge, to be considered true,” but a person like this wouldn’t necessarily be religious. Science has “ended by utterly repudiating the personal point of view.”The God/higher being recognized by science has to be one “of universal laws exclusively.”From science’s point of view, religion is a form of “primeval thought,” in which human beings tried to get the natural world to comply with them. James has asserted that the world of experience possesses an objective part and a subjective partThe external world of experiences is the largest and includes a person and their surroundings. The internal world is the one that feels the most real. James supports this by stating: “A conscious field plus its object as felt or thought of plus an attitude towards the object plus the sense of self to whom the attitude belongs—such a concrete bit of personal experience… is a full fact, even though it may be insignificant.” (pg.324)Since people feel internal world to be more real than scientific facts, they continue to be intrigued by the private states of mind that religion is so concerned with. What leads James to feel that such experiences are at the root of religious experience—the transmundane energies—as well as an essential factor for a fuller relationship with life? James states that for the devout the definition of life is derived from a higher power or consciousness animating the visible world ? The purpose of existence is to gain knowledge of that realm of transcendent (immaterial) experience James feels that it is natural that people have a variety of religious experiences Individuals differ and come from a wide range of cultures so it makes sense that they would experience divinity differently Their cultural beliefs about God or transcendence/superconsciousness are sure to determine the kinds of experiences they do have. 